# Executive summary

A section of the business plan that provides an overview of what will be covered in the document. who, what, and why of the business.

+ mission statement is what drives the business’s culture and progress over time. A mission statement is the entrepreneur’s reason for wanting to start this business and should convey a meaning that resonates (and motivates) with the founder, employees, and clients (Bart, 1997).
+ vision statement is what the business will look like in the long-term, over the next 5 to 10 years or more. If the overall goals of the business are met, the vision statement should describe an outside, broad view of the company.
+ Business Plan Questions
  + Who is the target audience? What challenge does the target audience face that the business can help solve?
  + What is the fitness professional’s personal connection and motivation to help solve this problem?
  + What does the business look like in 1, 5, and 10 years?

## Company Description

+ Customer acquisition cost (CAC)

  How much a new customer costs a business – typically, the cost is determined through money spent on advertising.

+ Unique selling proposition (USP)
  The unique benefit or feature of a product or service that differentiates a business from other businesses offering a similar service or product.

+ Business Plan Questions
  What are the unique goals of the business?
  What makes the company unique to clients? What single thing does the business perform or understand better than anyone else in the industry?
  Who will the company consist of at inception? What roles will each person have?

## Target Audience

+ Business Plan Questions
  What is the ideal client’s goal?
  Where does the ideal client live?
  How old is the ideal client?
  How long is the average client enrolled in coaching for?
  Are there any other specifics about the ideal client?

## Products and Services

+ Minimum viable product (MVP)

  A product that provides the bare minimum features to satisfy customer demand – this is the foundation for a product that will be developed and modified based on market feedback.

+ first step is to develop a base service
+ Features of Online Fitness Coaching Example
  Weekly check-ins with the coach that build toward sustainable fitness
  Custom training programs built around goals
  24/7 e-mail access to the coach with a guaranteed reply within 24 hours
  Access to the client-only newsletter, discussing the latest evidence-based fitness practices
  Coaching designed with flexibility in mind for individuals with busy schedules
+ Business Plan Questions
  What are two common competitor features that the company might offer clients?
  What are two standard features that other companies are not highlighting?
  Describe the USP in 1 to 2 sentences.
+ Customer lifetime value (CLV)
  The amount that a customer will spend with business over a lifetime.
+ Business Plan Questions
  What is the core service?
  What are two variations of that service and how do those variations relate to the core service?
  What is one unique feature for each of those new variations?

Quality of Product and Pricing

|           | **Quality of Product** |             |      |
| --------- | ---------------------- | ----------- | ---- |
| **Price** | Low                    | High        |      |
| Low       | Economy                | Penetration |      |
| High      | Skimming               | Premium     |      |

+ Business Plan Questions
  Will the service best fit into an economy, penetration, skimming, or premium price strategy?
  Will the company charge a one-time, pre-paid package fee or a recurring monthly subscription?
  Will the company test other pricing strategies or price points?
+ Do not change prices too often. Re-evaluate pricing every 3 months in the first year of business, every 6 months in the second year, and then yearly thereafter.

## Marketing plan

+ Four P's of marketing
  A common framework for developing marketing strategies that include: 
  + Product, 
    + Business Plan Questions
      What problem is the product solving?
      What are the features and benefits of the product?
      What is the primary pain point that the target customer is facing?
      How will this benefit the customer?
  + Price, 
    + Business Plan Questions
      What is the price point for the product (economy, luxury, etc.)?
      Is the pricing monthly or one-time?
      Is the company offering discounts?
      Is there a trial or guarantee?
  + Place, 
    + Business Plan Questions
      Where do the business’s target customers look for information (social media, search engines, blogs, videos, podcasts, magazines, etc.)?
      Where does the target customer view information on fitness (work, home, gym, etc.)?
  + Promotion.
    + Business Plan Questions
      Is the target customer a bargain shopper?
      Will paid advertising or free content best appeal to the target audience and properly convey the overall message?

## Sales Strategy

+ Sales funnel
  An organized, repeatable process that a prospective customer follows to become a paid customer.
  + Awareness
    + goal is to turn them into leads by bringing them into the next phase, Interest.
    + Lead
      A person who has expressed interest in a product or service and provided their information.
  + Interest
  + Decision
  + Action
+ Business Plan Questions
  Awareness – What content will be created to help prospects become aware of the brand? How will prospects find this content?
  Interest – How will a prospect let the company know that they are interested in services? What free offer will be presented to the prospect in exchange for their contact information?
  Decision – How will leads be nurtured during their decision-making process? What will a lead nurturing process look like?
  Action – What are the actions that a lead can take? What happens when they take a positive action or a negative action?

## Financial Projections

+ Business Plan Questions
  Estimate the following using price quotes by conducting market research:

  Professional fees (accountants, lawyers, insurance, certification, etc.)
  Equipment costs (computer, phone, webcam, microphone, etc.)
  Website (design, domain, hosting, e-mail, etc.)
  Salary (Yes, business owners should take a salary right away.)
  Taxes (Yes, taxes must be paid on profits.)
  Other (logo design, software, shirts, electronics repairs, etc.)